 
Guidelines for Press and Public Relations of the City Administration of Fictitiousville
The press and public relations of the City Administration of Fictitiousville primarily aims to publicize the services provided by all organizational units as shown in the Departmental Distribution Plan. The goal is to create a positive image of the entire administration. Press and public relations are understood as professional communication with the aim of strengthening and improving the image of the city and administration. This should be achieved as a unified voice.

The press work of Fictitiousville is to be proactively shaped. This includes reporting on public relevant issues at an early stage.

To achieve these goals, the following regulations are made:

1. Responsibilities
The responsibility for press and public relations lies with the Mayor. The coordination, central planning, and implementation are taken over by the Department 1.1 - Press Office. The content is coordinated with the Mayor or, depending on the topic, with the management of the respective department or with the management of the responsible organizational unit or the departmental management. The Press Office informs the Mayor or the departmental management about the results.

This procedure does not apply to the daily news coverage of fire department activities.

2. Press Releases and Press Conversations
Press work is the factual, comprehensive, and continuous information of the public through the media, the city of Fictitiousville's website, and other publications if necessary. This includes writing press releases and other texts that are published, as well as conducting press conversations. The editorial responsibility for the internet remains with the Department 3/ Central Services Department.

Press releases, invitations to press conversations, and other written information for the media are written and sent by the Press Office in coordination with the organizational units.

Press consultations are journalistically prepared and moderated by the Press Office in coordination with the Mayor or departmental management and the organizational units. The organization (e.g., room reservation) is the responsibility of the respective department.

3. Media Inquiries
The Press Office coordinates the response to media inquiries with the Mayor or departmental management and/ or the management of the organizational units or departmental departments. The organizational units provide the Press Office with information so that a quick response to the request is possible. The feedback to the departmental management is given by the Press Office or the management of the organizational units or departments. In addition, information to the media is reserved for the departmental management in their areas of responsibility. The management of the organizational units is only authorized to provide this on a case-by-case basis after prior approval from the Mayor or the responsible departmental management. The Press Office must be informed in all cases about information provided to the media. If a topic is of particular importance, the Mayor must be informed before providing information.

Notifications of events, courses, etc. of cultural institutions can be coordinated between the Press Office and the organizational units in consultation with the departmental management.

To ensure that the Press Office is prepared, they must be informed in a timely manner about public relevant topics. This also applies to topics that may be subject to media inquiries due to intense public interest.

4. Publications, Advertisements, Events
To ensure a uniform appearance, the Press Office must be involved in all publications intended for the public. Flyers, brochures, etc. are prepared by the respective organizational units and remain under their editorial responsibility.

Official advertisements (e.g., invitations to tender, announcements, obituaries) are prepared by the respective organizational units and placed by the Press Office.

The Press Office must be involved in the planning of public information events. (Excluded are public participation procedures, etc.)

5. Final Remarks
These regulations come into effect on January 01, 2009. The directive of November 7, 1978 and all conflicting orders will be repealed at the same time.

Fictitiousville, December 16, 2008
Signed,
John Smith
Mayor
01/02