Data Privacy Protection Agreement between the City of Belleville and the Employee Council for Video Surveillance 
of the Exhibition Rooms at the Belleville Museum in the Belleville Castle
Issue Date: 04/07/2019
Effective Date: 04/10/2019
Table of Contents:
Preamble
1
Scope
2
Technical Information
3
Authorized Persons
4
Affected Individuals
5
Recording, Analysis and Deletion Periods
6
Storage Location of Data
7
Identification of Monitored Areas 
8
Right to Access 
9
Effective Date
Preamble
Video surveillances are a violation of the general right to privacy protected by Article 2(1) of the German Constitution. 
In order to prevent property damage, it may be necessary to conduct video surveillance within the framework of exercising 
housekeeping rights. Therefore, in order to minimize theft and vandalism, video surveillance will be installed in the 
exhibition rooms at the Belleville Museum in Belleville Castle. Additionally, the obvious observation through video cameras 
can have a deterrent effect.
1
Scope
Video surveillance will be installed in both entry areas, stairwells, and all exhibition rooms. Excluded are the offices 
(of the museum management and employees), social rooms (e.g. kitchen), storage rooms, and toilet areas.
At the rear entry area (entrance for Belleville Theater), the outside wheelchair lift and the area immediately in front 
of the door will be captured, as far as the area belongs to city property.
In one of the exhibition rooms, weddings of employees of the registrar's office take place. During this time, no video 
surveillance may take place in the wedding room and in the room designated for wedding registrations.
For the duration of the weddings, the video surveillance/recording in the wedding and registration rooms will be 
deactivated by the personnel of the museum responsible for video surveillance.
Technical Information
A DIG-AIS digital video recording system from DIGware with DayNight DOME cameras "Samsung SCC-B5368" (1/3" 
color half-sphere camera) will be installed. Currently, there are 35 video cameras.
The monitor used for observation is located in the ticket area at the entrance of the museum and cannot be viewed by 
third parties. On the monitor, images from one to a maximum of 20 cameras can be displayed simultaneously.
It is possible, with programming effort, to hide individual cameras or reduce the display to specific exhibition rooms.
The video images are marked with the recording date and time, allowing for clear identification of the images.
With the help of a filter, images from a specific day at a preset time can be accessed. The sequences can be paused 
or played at an increased speed. It is possible to store individual scenes if necessary (for criminal prosecution, etc.) 
on a computer or other storage medium. Otherwise, the storage and recording of video images will take place as 
described in section 5.
The cameras are firmly installed on walls or ceilings in a vandal-proof housing. Audio recordings do not take place.
3
Authorized Persons
The only personnel authorized for visual control and access are employees of the educational service department 
similar to a public enterprise – the Belleville Museum administration.
4
Affected Individuals
Video surveillance will observe and record the museum visitors and, during Belleville Theater operation, also the 
theater visitors.
Museum employees are also affected while in the exhibition rooms or conducting activities there. The offices, storage 
rooms, social rooms (e.g. kitchen), and toilet areas, as well as other areas not intended for the public, will not be 
recorded.
5
Recording, Analysis and Deletion Periods
The employees of the Belleville Museum will observe visitors in order to prevent theft and vandalism and to pursue criminal 
prosecution, if necessary.
The images/data will be stored in a “black box”, meaning it will only be viewed by authorized individuals 
(museum personnel in the presence of a representative from the employee council and, if necessary, the police and a 
representative from the insurance company) in the case of a damage incident; otherwise, it will be overwritten or deleted. 
The storage period is 96 hours.
In the event of damage, the respective sequence will not be overwritten or deleted, but stored on the computer or 
other storage medium. The educational service department similar to a public enterprise – Belleville Museum will file a 
report with the police and, if necessary, transfer the data. If the stored data is assigned and processed for a specific 
individual, that individual will be notified. Notification may be withheld as long as the public interest in criminal 
prosecution significantly outweighs the notification rights of the affected individual (Section 29b(3) North Rhine-Westphalia 
Data Privacy Act).
Evaluations for individual performance and behavioral monitoring of the deployed personnel are not permitted.
6
Storage Location of Data
The computer and monitor are located at the checkout area of the entrance to the Belleville Museum. When employees 
are absent, the entrances are locked and inaccessible to unauthorized individuals. The server is located in a locked server 
cabinet.
The data will be protected by the educational service department similar to a public enterprise – Belleville Museum in 
such a way that it is impossible for unauthorized individuals to read, modify, delete, or steal the data stored on the data 
carriers.
Access to the computer is password protected. The password is only known to authorized personnel.
7
Identification of Monitored Areas
The fact of video surveillance will be indicated by easily readable signs according to DIN 33450: "Graphic symbol for 
indicating observation via optoelectronic devices" with the addition: "Video surveillance - City of Belleville" at the 
entrances to the Belleville Museum.
8
Right to Access
The following have the right to access while operations are ongoing:
-
the data protection officer within the framework of the powers granted under the North Rhine-Westphalia Data 
Protection Act (DSG NRW)
-
the employee council within the framework of its powers granted under the North Rhine-Westphalia Employee 
Representation Act (LPVG NRW).
9
Effective Date
This service instruction shall come into effect on 04/10/2019.
Belleville, 04/07/2019
Signed                                                                           Signed
Ballhaus
Roggenkamp
Mayor
Employee Council Chairman
3.1/04