
"Agreement on Performance-Oriented Payment at the Fictional City of Bremberg
Contents
Preamble
Scope
Voluntariness
Inclusion of Civil Servants of the Fictional City of Bremberg
In-House Commission
Performance Compensation
Procedure for Determination and Evaluation - Systematic Performance Assessment
Special Situations and Exceptions
Determining the Amount of Financial Volume and Information Obligations
Principles of Distribution
Conflict Resolution
Special Responsibility of Superiors
Training, Information
Documentation / Data Protection
Information Rights of the Staff Council
Final Provisions
Attachments:
1: Evaluation Form for Systematic Performance Assessment
2: Members of the In-House Commission
Between the Fictional City of Bremberg, represented by Mr. Mayor Fleischhauer,
and the Staff Council, represented by Chairwoman Ms. Rusch, on the basis of 
§ 18 Collective Agreement for the Public Service, the following First Amendment to the Service Agreement on Performance-Oriented Payment dated June 22, 2018 is adopted:
Preamble
With the introduction of the Collective Agreement for the Public Service (TVöD) in October 2005, the possibility of a variable performance-oriented payment for employees in the collective bargaining sector was created for the first time.
According to the intentions of the collective bargaining parties, the variable performance-oriented payment is aimed at improving public services through strengthening motivation and personal responsibility of employees and enhancing leadership competence.
In order for performance-oriented payment to act as a motivating factor, the framework conditions must be clearly defined. In the sense of the General Equal Treatment Act, it must be ensured that the evaluation and determination regulations are transparent and free of discrimination.
With this goal in mind, the system of performance-oriented payment was introduced and developed on January 1, 2008.
Scope
This service agreement applies to employees covered by the scope of TVöD at the Fictional City of Bremberg and its similar independent institutions.
This service agreement does not apply to employees mentioned in § 1 paragraph 2 TVöD, especially:
Employees who receive a regular salary exceeding the salary of pay scale 15, unless the provisions of TVöD have been declared applicable by individual agreement;
Trainees and interns;
Employees whose salaries are financed in full or in part through specific funding measures;
Marginally employed persons according to § 8 paragraph 1 number 2 SBG IV
Artistic theater personnel, technical theater personnel with predominantly artistic activities.
Voluntariness
(1) Employees who fall under the scope of this service agreement according to paragraph 1, may freely decide whether they want to participate in the performance-oriented payment system.
(2) If an employee decides against participation, there is no entitlement to performance compensation. The declaration must be made in writing and must reach the immediate supervisor or the in-house commission (point 4) annually by the beginning of the evaluation period.
It is expressly stated that the rejection of participation in the performance-oriented payment system does not have any labor law consequences.
Inclusion of Civil Servants of the Fictional City of Bremberg
This service agreement does not apply to civil servants. However, they should generally also be included in the granting of performance-oriented payment.
Due to the different financial and legal framework conditions, especially the currently imposed limit of a total of 15% of civil servants being eligible recipients, an independent regulation is therefore sought.
In-House Commission
The in-house commission is composed equally of 2 representatives of the employer and the staff council. Additionally, the equal opportunities officer of the Fictional City of Bremberg and the representative of disabled people are included as advisory members.
The in-house commission maintains its involvement in shaping the development, introduction, and constant controlling of the in-house performance-oriented payment system unrestricted of the participation rights of the staff council, equal opportunities officer, and representative of disabled people.
To fulfill their tasks, they have access to all necessary information and documents.
In regard to the decision made by the administration on the granting of performance compensation, the in-house commission advises on written complaints made by employees regarding deficiencies in the system or its application. 
Upon filing a written complaint, the commission develops a proposal for the mayor on whether and to what extent the complaint can be remedied on an individual basis.
The complainant will receive a written response from the in-house commission. Considering the statement of the immediate supervisor, the commission sends their recommendation to the mayor, who makes the final decision. If the mayor does not comply with the proposal, they must explain their reasons in writing to the complainant and the in-house commission.
Performance Compensation
(1) At the Fictional City of Bremberg, performance compensation is distributed via a performance bonus, which - if the individual requirements are met - is paid once a year with the December salary, or in the last salary month for employees who leave before October.
(2) Performance compensation must be accessible to all employees. Employees with impaired performance or disabilities must not be excluded from performance compensation as a general rule. Their respective performance impediments or disabilities must be appropriately taken into consideration.
Employees are required to report any impairment in performance or disability to their immediate supervisor as soon as it becomes known, if they wish for it to be taken into account in their individual performance evaluation.
A limitation in performance refers to an inﬂuencable reduction of the specific work performance that can have physical, psychological or social causes.
Procedure for Determination and Evaluation - Systematic Performance Assessment
The granting of a performance bonus is based on a systematic performance evaluation. The assessment is made using the attached evaluation form. The mandatory and voluntary criteria listed there aim to evaluate both the professional performance and the working methods of the employee. Thus, the systematic performance evaluation is determined using a total of 4 criteria. These are composed as follows:
Mandatory criteria:
The following are included in the mandatory criteria:
- Quality of work
- Quantity of work.
In case of employees with leadership responsibilities, a third mandatory criterion is added:
- Leadership activities.
This criterion can only be evaluated with 1 point or 2 points if the manager has conducted all annual employee interviews during the evaluation period.
Optional criteria:
In addition to the mandatory criteria, a further criterion is selected from the following list for employees with leadership responsibilities during the employee interview; and two criteria are selected for all other employees.
The optional criteria include:
- Result-oriented cooperation
- Conduct towards third parties
- Work organization / Timeliness.
(2) The optional criteria are determined by the immediate supervisor in consultation with the employee and should be oriented towards the requirements of the specific work place. The main tasks that characterize the work place (maximum 5 mentions) must be specified in the evaluation form.
(3) Accomplishment degree is evaluated through point system.
The following evaluation levels are provided:
0 points: the requirements are not or only partially met
1 point: the requirements are met
2 points: the requirements are met excellently.
A maximum of 8 points can therefore be reached.
Performance compensation is granted if at least 3 criteria 
- including all mandatory criteria - are each given 1 point.
If 0 points are awarded for any of the mandatory criteria, no bonus will be granted regardless of the total number of points achieved. In such a case, the employee must be explicitly informed of this during the final discussion.
If the minimum requirement for granting a performance bonus cannot be fulfilled, the employee has a right and obligation to participate in suitable training and development measures. The specific measures are to be agreed upon with the immediate supervisor.
(5) A catalog of measures must be developed and updated annually. The corresponding funds must be made available.
(6) The evaluation period for the systematic performance evaluation generally covers a period of 12 months, from October of the current year to September of the following year.
(7) The systematic performance evaluation begins with the initial discussion between the employee and the immediate supervisor. During this discussion, the criteria must be determined, explained, and documented in writing using the evaluation form (the supervisor and the employee each receive a copy).
If there is an impairment in performance according to point 5 paragraph 2 of this service agreement or a disability, this should be appropriately taken into account when determining the relevant criteria, if the employee wants it to be considered in their individual performance evaluation. The immediate supervisor must ensure that the initial discussion is held well in advance of the evaluation period.
(8) The immediate supervisor is required to conduct a mid-term review with the employee during the first half of the evaluation period, specifically identifying any issues or deficiencies that could endanger the achievement of a performance bonus, and agreeing on any necessary corrections or assistance. The mid-term review must also be documented in writing (the supervisor and the employee each receive a copy).
(9) After the end of the evaluation period, the evaluation forms must be completed within 4 weeks and presented to the employee during a final discussion. The employee receives a copy. The supervisor also receives a copy. The provisions of point 13 paragraph 4 of this service agreement apply with respect to storage (Documentation / Data Protection).
(10) To ensure that performance bonuses can be paid in December, the evaluation forms must be submitted to the in-house commission by way of the personnel office
until October 31 of a year
at the latest.
If employees leave earlier, the evaluations must be completed in a timely manner, so that they are submitted to the in-house commission no later than the last day of the month of their departure.
Based on the assessment decisions made, the in-house commission calculates the individual performance bonuses for employees (taking into account point 6 paragraph 3 and point 9 of this service agreement).
Special Situations and Exceptions
The agreed criteria can be revised in the event of substantial changes in framework conditions between the immediate supervisor and the employee. These include in particular serious circumstances that employees or the administration cannot influence (e.g. changes in laws, redistribution of tasks among authorities).
(2) When the immediate supervisor changes or when employees are transferred within the evaluation period, the agreements made continue to apply.
In these cases, the previous immediate supervisor and the employee jointly draw up a mid-term review. This can be done either informally or in writing using the evaluation form. The new supervisor should be involved in the meeting.
(3) Performance bonuses at a flat rate equivalent to the average bonus of the respective financial volume is granted in the following cases:
- In case of employment contracts that are limited to less than 6 months during the evaluation period, proportionally;
- For persons entitled to remuneration for less than 6 months or for actual work for less than 6 months (exception: transfer within the Fictional City of Bremberg, see point 2);
The subsidy for maternity pay is considered as remuneration.
These cases do not apply in the event of a termination (e.g. probationary termination, immediate termination) initiated by the employer - unless the immediate supervisor explains to the in-house commission in an individual case why a flat rate should nevertheless be paid.
The cases are also excluded, in which a bonus was not paid in the previous evaluation period due to a poor evaluation, and the employment relationship ends during the new evaluation period before 6 months have passed (e.g. for fixed-term contracts, termination agreements or terminations by the employee) - unless the immediate supervisor explains to the in-house commission in an individual case why a flat rate should nevertheless be paid.
(4) Employees whose part-time work was agreed upon before January 1, 2009 will receive a flat rate compensation during the release phase. In the event of reduced performance or disability, any reduction in work capacity and the type of disability are taken into account during the systematic performance evaluation, if the employee wishes for it to be considered. If so, the representative for disabled people or one of trust (e.g. staff council member) should be involved in the initial discussion.
The equal opportunities officer and employees who have been released from 75% or more of their average working hours in accordance with the State Staff Representation Act and the Disability Act will receive performance compensation equivalent to the average amount of bonuses for employees in their respective salary groups without performance assessment.
For employees released from 50% to less than 75%, a performance assessment is made based on the work performance provided during the periods in which they were not released. The performance bonus is then transferred to the released share of work time.
The employees released to less than 75% or more than 50% can choose between the regulation mentioned in the first and second sentences. The choice must be made by the beginning of the performance period; in case of release during the performance period, the choice must be made on their first day of release.
When assessing performance for partially released employees, it must be ensured that the person does not have any disadvantages or advantages due to their work, respectively.
Determining the Amount of Financial Volume and Information Obligations
(1) The administration sets the amount of financial volume for performance bonuses in accordance with § 18 paragraph 3 TVöD in conjunction with the Protocol Declaration to Sentence 1 on an annual basis and makes this known to employees through internal publication.
For the determination of the amount of financial volume, the staff council and in-house commission must be provided with necessary documents.
Principles of Distribution
(1) The financial volume for employees is distributed as follows:
- Sub-volume 1  =  Salary groups 1 - 3 and S2 - S3
- Sub-volume 2  =  Salary groups 4 - 6 and S4 - S6
- Sub-volume 3  =  Salary groups 7 - 9b, and S7 - S13
- Sub-volume 4  =  Salary groups 9c - 12, and S14 - S18
- Sub-volume 5  =  Salary groups 13 - 15.
The assignment to a sub-volume is based on the salary group in which employees were primarily classified during the evaluation period. Any changes in salary group after October 31 in any given year are not taken into account.
The independent institutions of the Fictional City of Bremberg will receive a preliminary calculation of the total expected costs for their employees on the basis of the financial volume determined by point 9. Once the process has been completed, the actual costs (sums of bonuses for all eligible employees) will be communicated. Independent budgets will not be established for the independent institutions.
The calculation of the bonus amounts is made by dividing the available sub-volume - adjusted for any previous bonuses paid out for respective salary groups - by the total number of bonus points reached annually for respective salary groups.
The calculation of the bonus amount is made while taking into account point 6 paragraph 3 of this service agreement (minimum requirement for granting bonuses) by multiplying the points achieved (point 6 paragraph 2 of this service agreement) and the amount per point (point 9 paragraph 3 of this service agreement).
Employees who leave during the evaluation period and have a right to bonuses or flat rate payment will receive these based on the bonus level decided upon during the previous evaluation period. This will be raised by the factor of general tariff increases.
Any part-time work will not affect the bonus amount.
The in-house commission will announce the information to employees about the bonus amount per point for each sub-volume on the intranet.
Conflict Resolution
If an employee is dissatisfied with the results of the performance evaluation, they can contest it in writing to the mayor within a month since receiving the evaluation.
The in-house commission will review whether the complaint is due to deficiencies in the system or its application and prepares a proposal for decision. In other respects, reference is made to the regulations under point 4 paragraph 3 of this service agreement (In-House Commission).
Special Responsibility of Superiors
The immediate supervisor is required to carry out the discussions provided for in point 6 paragraphs 7 to 9 of this service agreement with employees.
If there are clear indications during the evaluation period indicating that the achievement of a performance bonus is endangered, the immediate supervisor must inform the affected employees immediately.
Training, Information
Training must be provided for the respective supervisors who are responsible for preparing the systematic performance evaluation.
The employees must be informed about the introduction of performance-oriented payment at the Fictional City of Bremberg suitably. The members of the in-house commission listed in attachment 2 will be available as contact persons for any questions.
Documentation / Data Protection
(1) The results of the systematic performance evaluation must be handled confidentially by all parties. The legal data protection provisions must be observed.
(2) Documents prepared in connection with systematic performance evaluation (in particular the evaluation form) will be placed in personnel files. They must be removed from personnel files after 3 years have passed.
Passing on of data to third parties must generally be limited to what is necessary to pay out the performance compensation. Systematic evaluations without individual reference are permitted.
The evaluation form as a result of systematic performance evaluation can be kept under lock and key in copy by the immediate supervisor until the next evaluation period is completed. Its use is only permitted in the interest of continuous application of the in-house system. This copy must be destroyed within one year.
Information Rights of the Staff Council
The legal participation rights of the staff council remain unaffected.
On request, the staff council will receive
a summary of the financial volume for performance bonuses for the previous year;
Information about the distribution of the financial volume to the established sub-volumes;
Distribution of the compensation, separated according to gender, salary groups and departments.
Final Provisions
This first amendment to the service agreement dated June 22, 2018 will come into effect on March 1, 2023. It can be terminated with a notice period of 3 months. The text can be amended through mutual agreement at any time.
Insofar as individual regulations of this service agreement prove to be or become invalid on account of other legal or collective bargaining regulations, the validity of this service agreement is not affected except for these points. In such case, the contracting parties must immediately enter negotiations with the aim of replacing the ineffective regulations with those which as closely as possible achieve the effectiveness sought.
This service agreement will be made available to all employees in a suitable manner.
Bremberg, March 1, 2023
gez.
gez.
Christoph Fleischhauer
Nira Rusch
Mayor
Staff Council Chairwoman
 