

Improvement suggestion process in the fictional city of Seehausen (Guidelines for Employees)

Title: The Improvement Suggestion Process in the City of Seehausen

Author: Emily Berger

Issue Date: February 15th, 2022

Effective Date: March 1st, 2022

1. Objectives and Purpose of the Suggestion System

The city of Seehausen values the ideas and experiences of its employees as essential elements of its continuous modernization process. The Improvement Suggestion System aims to motivate all employees to think of ways to enhance various aspects of the city's administration and to submit their own self-developed ideas.

It is the responsibility of all managers to actively support the Improvement Suggestion System, provide guidance to their staff, and encourage them to submit innovative proposals.

The proposed improvements should primarily aim to:

• Make the city's administration more citizen-oriented and customer-friendly
• Streamline and optimize administrative procedures and workflows
• Enhance the cooperation and communication within the administration 
• Create functional and employee-friendly work environments 
• Make efficient use of technical resources and existing facilities 
• Focus on improving the safety, health, and environmental protection standards 
• Reduce costs through effective work organization

The suggestion should include concrete suggestions rather than just pointing out the areas that need improvement. It can include sketches, samples, or plans for better understanding.

Suggestions for the acquisition of tools or devices for work purposes, such as machines or electronic equipment, are not considered part of the Improvement Suggestion System.

Proposals for purchasing off-the-shelf software that may need to be adapted to the city's requirements are also not considered part of the Improvement Suggestion System.

2. Inventions

Inventions made by employees, based on knowledge acquired through their employment or service, are not governed by these guidelines. They are subject to the law on employee inventions of July 25th, 1957 (Federal Law Gazette I, p. 756 ff.) in its current version and must be reported to Department 3 - Internal Services. Further actions will be taken in agreement with the employee.

3. Eligible Contributors

All employees of the city of Seehausen are encouraged to submit improvement suggestions. Groups of employees can also submit suggestions.

Staff members who deal with organizational and economic matters as part of their job may participate in proposals that go beyond their respective field.

The Mayor and Deputy Mayors are excluded from participating.

4. Submission of Improvement Suggestions

The proposal should be addressed informally to the Head of Department 3.3 - Organization and should include the following information:

- First and last name of the submitter (in the case of group submissions, the names of all participants and their percentage of contribution)
- Department
- Work extension number

If one person or a group makes several proposals at once, each suggestion should be submitted separately.

The proposal can also be submitted anonymously. In this case, personal information must be attached on a separate sheet and enclosed in a sealed envelope.

5. Review of the Improvement Suggestion

If the suggestion is not submitted anonymously, Department 3.3 - Organization will provide a written acknowledgement of receipt. In a preliminary review, the department will assess the usability and effectiveness of the improvement suggestion and make a decision to accept or reject it. If necessary, opinions and assessments from the relevant department, and if applicable, other parties will be obtained. If the suggestion is accepted, the review results and opinions will be submitted to the Evaluation Commission for decision-making.

During the process, the anonymity and confidentiality of the submitter will be maintained by Department 3.3. Personal information will only be disclosed after the decision of the Evaluation Commission. The publication of the submitter's name and official distinction will only happen with their consent.

6. Decision on Improvement Suggestion

The Evaluation Commission will decide on the award and the amount of the prize. The Commission includes:

a) Head of Department 3 - Internal Services or a designated representative
b) Head of the department affected by the suggestion or a designated representative
c) Head of the Audit Office or a designated representative
d) Chairman or representative of the Staff Council
e) Head of Department 3.3 - Organization

The Head of Department 3 - Internal Services chairs the commission. If necessary, the chairman can invite other persons for their expertise, such as relevant experts, Deputy Mayors, or the Mayor, for particularly important suggestions.

The employee responsible for Improvement Suggestions in Department 3.3 - Organization will present the review results (see point 5) and record the minutes of the meeting.

The Commission will achieve a quorum if the majority of the members mentioned are present. Decisions will be made by a simple majority. In case of a tie, the chairman will cast the deciding vote.

The commission members cannot participate in discussions about their own proposals.

7. Acknowledgment and Public Announcement

The department will send a written notification to the submitter with the decision of the evaluation commission or reasons for rejection. If the suggestion is accepted, a copy of the notification will be filed in the employee's records. Accepted suggestions will be announced with respect to anonymity (see point 5).

8. Rewards for Improvement Suggestions

Approved suggestions can be rewarded with a written commendation or a cash or non-cash prize.

The cash prize ranges from a minimum of €20 to a maximum of €500. Suggestions resulting in significant cost savings may receive a higher prize within budget constraints.

The prize amount is determined based on the following calculation:

 
Degree of improvement:
slight 
= 
10 points 

 
slightly better 
= 
20 points 

 
moderate 
= 
30 points 

 
high 
= 
40 points 

 
very high 
= 
50 points 

 
Scope of application:
localized (one or several workstations) 
= 
1 point 

 
wider area (service department) 
= 
2 points 

 
large area (department) 
= 
3 points 

 
entire city administration 
= 
5 points 

Calculation:
Point value for degree of improvement x point value for scope of application 

x €2 (per point) = total prize money 

If several people are involved in one proposal, the prize money will be divided among them according to their contribution, otherwise, it will be shared equally.

Prizes are subject to partial taxation under the ordinance on the tax treatment of incentives for improvement suggestions of February 18th, 1957 (Federal Law Gazette I, p. 33) in its current version.

9. Confidentiality and Final Decision

The decisions of the Evaluation Commission are final. There is no legal right to receive a cash prize.

10. Effective Date

This directive comes into effect immediately, replacing the previous regulations of July 19th, 2018.

Seehausen, February 25th, 2022.

Signed,

Janina Hahn, Mayor