 "Special working time regulations for employees in the Youth Department in connection with children and youth measures" 

Title: "Protecting Employee Privacy: A Fictional Agreement" 
Author: Emma Müller 
Issue Date: June 1, 2021 
Effective Date: July 1, 2021 

Between the city of Neustadt - represented by the Mayor - 
and 
the Staff Council - represented by the chairperson - 
a supplementary agreement is concluded in accordance with §§ 70 and 72 para. 4 no. 1 of the State Staff Representation Act for the State of North Rhine-Westphalia (LPVG NW) of 03.12.1974 in its current version, in addition to the existing "Collective Agreement on Flexible Working Time" of 19.12.2012, as follows: 
Special Working Time Regulations for Employees in the Youth Department in Connection with Children and Youth Measures 

Preamble 
Some employees of the Youth Department are responsible for organizing and supervising (both pedagogically and technically) measures for children and youth. In exceptional cases, it may be necessary for their working hours to exceed the general legally prescribed framework, meaning that the maximum working hours and break regulations according to the Working Time Act cannot be adhered to. 
According to § 6 para. 4 TVöD in conjunction with § 7 ArbZG, individual regulations of the Working Time Act can be deviated from in a limited extent for urgent work-related reasons on the basis of a collective agreement. In order to balance the interests of employees and the work-related interests, the following collective agreement is concluded. It also applies to employees in the civil service. 

Scope 
These regulations apply to the specialist staff of Youth Department 10.1 - Youth, who are employed within the following measures under the responsibility of the city of Neustadt, Department of Youth and Social Services: 
- 
District festivals (e.g. district festival Neudorf, Potato Festival) 
- 
Festivals (e.g. Rock It, Freefall) 
- 
Playground vacations 
- 
Out of town leisure activities (with children and possibly family members)  
- 
An overnight event at daycare facilities 

Extension of the Maximum Permissible Working Time, Reduction of Legal Rest Period 
In exceptional cases, where an extended working time or a reduced rest period is absolutely necessary for the implementation of a measure - also including contract workers - the work schedule for employees can be as follows: 
a) Maximum daily working time up to 12 hours, followed by a minimum rest period of 8 hours 
- 2 - 
3.2/20 

b) Maximum daily working time of 12 to 14 hours, the following day is an off day. 
These regulations apply to district festivals and playground vacations. 
To limit the workload for employees, the shifts should be evenly distributed amongst the available staff. The responsibility for this lies with the management of Department 10.1 as well as the departmental management of Department 10. 

Recording of Actual Working Hours 
The working hours will be recorded using the electronic time recording system of the city of Neustadt, AIDA, in accordance with the "Collective Agreement on Electronic Time Recording at the City of Neustadt" of 19.12.2012. For this purpose, the cap for daily working hours during the mentioned measures will be raised to 12 hours. After each measure, Department 10.1 will inform the AIDA administration of the relevant employees and time periods, so that the working hours of over 10 hours (up to a maximum of 12 or 14 hours) can be credited. 
By no later than January 31st, the internal service department will receive an overview of the hours worked by employees over 10 hours per day in the previous year and any cases where a shortened rest period was necessary. The staff council will receive a copy of this to review and assess whether deviations from the Working Time Act are tolerable and whether this collective agreement can be upheld. 
The staff council will be presented with each measure, in accordance with the provisions of §72.4 LPVG, with timely and complete information. The approval of any overtime hours according to the ArbZG will only take place after the staff council has given their approval. 

Effective Date 
This collective agreement will come into effect on July 1, 2021. It can be terminated with a three month notice in accordance with the provisions of the North Rhine-Westphalia State Staff Representation Act. 

Neustadt, 1st June 2021 
The Mayor 
In Representation 

by 

signed 
Emma Müller 
Council's Delegate 

signed 
Karl Schmidt 
City's Representative