
Instruction Manual for the Management Board of the Publicly Owned Institution Education in the City of Schonwald
in the version of 06.04.2016
1. Scope of the Instruction Manual
Education 0/02
This Instruction Manual governs the tasks and responsibilities of the management board, in particular the first management board and the heads of business areas. The rights of the council, the administrative committee and the personnel representation remain unaffected.
2. Composition of the Management Board
The composition of the management board is regulated in the operating regulations of the publicly owned institution Education in the City of Schonwald.
3. Tasks of the Management Board
a) The members of the management board, who belong to the management board due to their function as head of a business area, are generally responsible for all matters of their business area.
b) All matters of particular importance and/or concerning the public institution Education as a whole must be presented to the collegial management board for decision. The following matters fall within the decision-making authority of the collegial management board:
- Proposals to the administrative committee and the council of the city.
- Preparation and implementation of the business plan with profit plan, asset plan and staffing overview, controlling.
- Preparation of the annual financial statements and management report.
- Preparation and implementation of necessary budgetary consolidation concepts.
- Determination of the financial plan and investment program.
- Determination of operational principles for personnel planning.
- Business distribution and management orders, in particular rules on responsibilities, instructions, granting of authorizations, coordination of representation of the publicly owned institution in working groups, committees, etc.
The management board leads the publicly owned institution Education independently and is responsible for the economic management of the institution as a whole. The management board ensures a consistent operational approach for the associated educational and cultural facilities. It fulfills the overall city responsibility.
The management board is responsible for the day-to-day management of the institution. This includes all measures necessary to maintain orderly operations.
4. Working methods of the Management Board
The date of the next management board meeting is usually determined in the current management board meeting.
Agenda items are reported to the management board for protocol. The agenda will be sent to the participants no later than 2 days before the meeting.
The management board makes decisions by resolutions. It is quorate if more than half of its members are present.
Additional participants can be consulted for meetings of the management board if necessary.
Decisions of the collegial management board are made and recorded by a majority vote. The first management board has the right to veto. The protocol shall be submitted to the first management board with the necessary explanations for approval. The decisions are approved by the signature of the first management board or, if necessary, their representative under the protocol.
Urgent decisions are made by the first management board with the head of the responsible business area. The management board is to be informed of this in the next meeting.
5. Tasks and Position of the First Management Board
The first management board is the interface to the administrative management and the political committees. They are responsible for reporting to the administrative committee and the council. They coordinate individual measures of significant operational importance.
The first management board decides in case of disagreements within the management board.
6. Entry into Force
This Instruction Manual shall enter into force on 20.05.2016.
Schonwald, on the 12th of May 2016
Robert Smith
Mayor
Signature:
___ Andreas Bauer
Director of Education