

Title: "Guidelines for Managing Budget Transfers and Sensitive Data Protection in the Municipality of Rosenbach"

Author: Catharina Müller

Issue Date: September 10th, 2021

Effective Date: January 1st, 2021

Change HistoryAbbreviations / GlossaryScopeThis guideline applies to the entire administration of the municipality of Rosenbach. This includes departments and other organizational units, as well as any other entities managing the municipal budget (ZGM), unless otherwise specified in the guidelines of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Budget Regulations (KomHVO NRW) or other regulations.General InformationBased on the guidelines of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Code and the KomHVO NRW, this guideline contains the necessary principles for the municipality of Rosenbach regarding the type, scope, and duration of budget transfers according to § 22 (1) of the KomHVO NRW. The council of the municipality of Rosenbach has approved this guideline with a decision on June 30th, 2021.The formulations in this guideline use designated main functions (e.g. department management) for the purpose of readability. In the event of substitution, the provisions apply equally to the substitute in the department. References to laws and regulations refer to the currently valid versions. All departments are required to inform the Department of Budget Management (FD 2.1) of any required or occurred changes. DefinitionsThe budget plan and the specific projects and measures outlined in the budget plan are the basis of budget management for the municipality of Rosenbach and provide the legally binding framework for administrative actions in terms of content and time - the so-called authorization. This task-related binding allows for discretion in budget management within the framework of legal requirements (e.g. principle of cost-effectiveness and thriftiness according to § 75 of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Code). According to the annual principle of budget plans (§78 South. 1 of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Code), the authorizations listed in it only apply until the end of the fiscal year. This principle also applies if the municipal budget contains regulations for two fiscal years according to § 78 (3) of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Code. When preparing the budget plan for a fiscal year, it is not always possible to predict with certainty whether the authorizations budgeted in the budget plan can actually be used by the end of the fiscal year. If resources or funds were not fully utilized in the previous fiscal year, the corresponding authorizations are considered saved. In principle, expenses and payments can only be made again once new authorizations have been approved through the budget plan of the following fiscal year. In order to ensure economical and proper budget management, it is possible according to § 22 (1) of the KomHVO NRW to transfer authorizations for expenses and payments to the following fiscal year, as long as there are still funds available at the end of the fiscal year.Maybe an illustration could be added for better understanding!

This transfer of authorizations serves as an instrument for flexible budget management, which is subject to legal requirements. The budgeted authorizations differ between expenses and payment authorizations. Effects of Budget TransfersAccording to § 75 (2) of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Code, the council adopts a budget plan with a balanced planning and accounting. This planning does not take into account any budget transfers, as there is limited knowledge about them at the time of budget adoption. According to § 22 (2) of the KomHVO NRW, budget transfers result in an increase in the corresponding positions in the following year. If authorizations for a fiscal year are transferred to the following fiscal year, they will burden the corresponding positions and lead to a deterioration in the result if they are used. Transferability of Authorizations§ 22 of the KomHVO NRW authorizes the transfer of authorizations for expenses and payments in current administrative activities. In order to determine the need as economically and objectively as possible, a justification must be provided for all required budget transfers. Even unallocated or overallocated expenses or payments are transferable if there is an additional need and it is considered indispensable (according to § 83 (1) of the North Rhine-Westphalia Municipal Code). The term "indispensable" is not further defined by the legislator and refers to the urgent necessity or urgency of implementing the cause in the fiscal year. Budget transfers can only be made if the implementation or continuation of the measure is subject to a temporal and material obligation and does not hinder the fulfillment of municipal tasks. The material obligation of the purpose and use should generally remain intact. In order to not jeopardize the timely implementation of a measure, budget transfers for investment expenditures can be made for other investment measures in exceptional cases. The prerequisite for this is that the original measures are not jeopardized and do not lead to any additional budget burdens. Lump-sum budget transfers are not permitted due to the continued validity of the material obligations of expense and payment authorizations. Transfer of authorizations for current administrative operationsIn principle, no budget transfers are made for current administrative operations. If budget transfers are still necessary, a detailed justification must be provided as to why the funds are needed for the intended purpose. Further requirements can be found under section 4.2 of this guideline. Transfer of authorizations for investment expendituresIf budget transfers for investment expenditures are necessary, a detailed justification must be provided as to why the funds are needed for the intended purpose. A transfer of authorization is possible for ongoing measures, which remain available until the final payment is due. Payment authorizations for projects that have not yet begun will only be transferred if it is no longer possible to reallocate them during the budget planning process. If authorizations are transferred, they will also remain available until the final payment is due. If an investment measure has been finalized, budget transfers are generally not made. Transfer due to legal obligationsAccording to § 22 (3) of the KomHVO NRW, the municipality is generally obligated to make available the means required for expenses and payments that are to be covered by earmarked revenues and receipts as a result of legal obligations. These authorizations for spending will remain available until the purpose has been fulfilled and the authorizations for payments will remain available until the final payment is due. Exclusion of Budget TransfersOnly budget transfers for expenses and payments are permitted. According to § 14 of the KomHVO NRW, the resources of the mayor cannot be transferred. Transfer ProcedureThe responsible management of the organizational unit submits the necessary budget transfers. The deadline for applications is determined by the deadline specified in the respective annual accounting order. In the application for budget transfers from an ongoing measure, it must be explained why a reallocation in the following year was not possible. The Director of Finance (FD 2.1) makes decisions on the creation and amount of budget transfers based on this guideline. Amount of Authorization TransferBudget transfers can be made at a maximum of the remaining funds and only for the same purpose in the budget plan of the following fiscal year. The remaining funds consist of frozen funds, the obligation, and the available funds. Transfer of current budget authorizationsAdditional requirements apply to budget transfers of current budget operations, as they are generally not carried out. If budget transfers are still necessary, an application must be submitted through the respective department management, which includes the PSP element, the cost center to which the authorization is to be transferred, and a detailed explanation. Transfer of investment authorizationsThe application for budget transfers in the investment sector is part of the respective annual accounting orders. The form will be sent to the responsible parties by FD 2.1 after the annual accounting orders have been published. Information Obligation to the Representative BodyThe council must be informed according to § 22 (4) sentence 1 of the KomHVO NRW about the budget transfers made, indicating their effects on the result plan and financial plan of the following year. Annual AccountingBudget transfers must be separately listed in the annual accounting according to § 22 (4) sentence 2 of the KomHVO NRW. Budget transfers must be shown in the budgeted result statement for expenses and in the budgeted cash statement for payments in the comparison between planned and actual results. Entry into ForceThis guideline enters into force retroactively as of January 1st, 2021. It must first be applied in the 2021 annual accounting. Rosenbach, July 2021

Signed by: Gertrud Weber
Mayor