Page I 
 
Table of Contents 
1 
Background and Objectives 
1 
2 
Payment Service Providers (Payment Service Providers / 
Payment Options) 
2 
3 
Execution 
2 
3.1 
Fundamentals 
2 
3.2 
Application by the responsible department 
3 
3.3 
Configuration 
3 
3.3.1 
Epay21 
3 
3.3.2 
Form-Solution 
4 
3.3.3 
Bayer Double Entry Accounting 
4 
3.3.3.1 
Payment stack 
5 
3.3.3.2 
Account Allocation General Ledger 
5 
3.3.3.3 
Provision of data in Bayer Double Entry Accounting 
5 
3.3.4 
GiroCockpit 
6 
3.3.5 
PayPal 
6 
3.4 
Posting of credits 
6 
3.5 
Posting of fees (payment processing costs) 
7 
4 
Controls 
7 
4.1 
Bank collection accounts 
7 
4.2 
Daily reconciliation 
7 
4.3 
Transaction overviews 
7 
5 
Refund processes 
8 
5.1 
Refunds payment option giropay 
9 
5.2 
Refunds payment option credit card 
9 
5.3 
Refunds payment option PayPal 
9 
6 
Treatment of erroneous ZSTP interface data records 
10 
7 
Retention of documents 
10 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Page II 
 
Version 
Date 
Changes 
1.0 
September 
2022 
Creation 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Page III 
 
Abbreviations / Glossary 
 
Abbreviation / 
Word 
Description 
Figure 
Illustration 
AGB 
General terms and conditions 
Bank. 
Bank collection 
Batch input 
Maps 
Batch input maps are used to import data from external systems or between SAP systems. 
bzw. 
or 
CO 
Controlling, SAP module 
DA 
Administrative instruction 
DA Fibu 
Administrative instruction on the regulation of financial accounting for Bayer 
DZBW 
Datzenzentrale Baden-Württemberg 
DZ-Kommunalmas- 
Datenzentrale-Kommunalmaster® Doppik 
E-mail 
Electronic mail 
ELKO 
Electronic account statement 
ekom21 
Municipal IT service company 
epay21 
Epay21 is a platform for electronic payments in public administration. 
ePayment 
The term e-payment encompasses all possibilities for payment processing via the Internet. 
FD 
Department 
giropay 
Payment procedure of banks for online banking customers 
GO NRW 
Municipal code NRW 
GmbH 
Limited liability company 
including 
including 
i.R. 
In the context of 
KomHVO NRW 
Municipal budget ordinance North Rhine-Westphalia 
Dokumentation zur Regelung von ePayment-Zahlungen bei Bayer 
 
 
 
 
Page IV 
 
Abbreviation / 
Word 
Description 
KRZN 
Municipal data processing center Lower Rhine 
Short cont. 
Short account allocation 
öRP 
Local auditing 
Payment-service- 
Online payment provider 
PayPal 
Consumer account-based online service provider, 
PayPal customers pay by email address and password 
via their bank payment instructions or accounts 
PSCD 
Public Sector Collection and Disbursement 
s. 
see 
SAP 
Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing (Company Name) 
Spk 
Savings bank 
u. a. 
amongst others 
z. B.  
For example 
ZSTP 
Payment stack 
zzt. 
currently 

 
 
 
 
Page 1 
 
1 Background and Objectives 
The term ePayment encompasses all possibilities for payment processing via the Internet. 
The introduction of ePayment expands Bayer's online service offering. The epay21 platform 
is used for the implementation of ePayment in public administration. Epay21 offers an inter-
face between the processes of the administration, works out payment data from payment 
service providers and automatically provides payment data for posting in the administration's 
financial system. The platform thus offers not only an improvement in the service offering, 
but also the opportunity to optimize existing administrative processes. 
 
Fig .: 
Simplified schematic process of a successful order and payment using epay21 
Dokumentation zur Regelung von ePayment-Zahlungen bei Bayer 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 
 
The prerequisites for using the epay21 platform are the use of a specialist application for 
the digital provision of municipal service offers and the commissioning of a payment service 
provider who submits the payment transaction data to the epay21 platform. 
Bayer uses Form-Solution, which is integrated into epay21, to expand its digital service offer. 
The extension of e-payment options is based on the requirements of the DA Fibu. In particu-
lar, section 5.4.2.1 must be observed. 
The e-payment options offered are processed via the payment service provider S-Public 
Services GmbH and PayPal. 
2 Payment service providers (payment service providers / payment options) 
The payment options of giropay and credit card have been agreed with S-Public Services 
GmbH as the payment service provider. PayPal, too, has been agreed as a payment option 
with the provider of the same name. 
S-Public Services GmbH and PayPal provide a payment guarantee to Bayer for the 
contractually agreed payment methods. 
3 Execution 
3.1 Fundamentals 
The cash management of the electronically processed payments is the responsibility of the 
municipal treasury. The general professional and technical supervision is the responsibility 
of the responsible department. 
The municipal budget law, municipal budget ordinance and administrative instructions on the 
regulation of financial management for Bayer in the respectively valid version are to be 
observed. This also applies to the professional supervision of the Treasurers, which re-
mains unaffected therefrom. 
The payment processing options enable the processing of giropay, credit card and PayPal 
payments. An expansion of the offered payment options (e.g. direct debit payments) takes 
place after the Stadtkämmerer/Stadtkämmerin (Treasurer) has taken a decision in accor-
dance with section 5.4.2.1 of DA Fibu. 
Payments via the payment platform epay21 are only paid out for refunds. 
The responsible department has the following tasks in particular: 
• 
execution / performance of the requested service 
• 
execution of a target/actual comparison, 
• 
determination of conformity, 
• 
archiving of incoming emails or orders, 
• 
at least monthly monitoring of revenue 
• 
transmission of necessary data to FD 2.1 Financial Management (e.g. data for fee 
billing) by the 15th of the following month 
The municipal treasury has the following tasks in particular: 
• 
Approval of the KRZN payment stack, 
• 
examination of the error table cockpit, 
• 
processing of the electronic account statement, 
• 
checking of the bank collection accounts and the daily reconciliation, 
Dokumentation zur Regelung von ePayment-Zahlungen bei Bayer 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 
 
• 
Cash transaction processing of refunds, 
• 
archiving of the transaction overviews and the reimbursement requests, 
• 
transmission of necessary data to FD 2.1 Financial Management (e.g. data for fee 
billing) and to the responsible department by the 15th of the following month. 
3.2 Application by the responsible department 
To be able to use the electronic payment options, an application from the department pro-
viding the service is required. The application must be submitted by the department manage-
ment or deputy management by email at least to the Accounts department. 
The following information must be provided: 
• 
Description of the service 
• 
Information on the payment methods 
• 
Planned start date 
The municipal treasury subsequently assesses whether technical implementation via ePay-
ment payments is possible. The municipal treasury informs the department that applied for 
it, FD 2.1 Financial Management and the local auditing. After the municipal treasury has 
decided, the responsible department must contact the Digitalization department to develop 
the necessary forms. The responsible department informs the municipal treasury, FD 2.1 
Financial Management, the Digitalization department and the local auditing of the start date. 
It became apparent, that cases with fiscal relevance must have a discussion before hand 
with the tax coordination rule centre in FD 2.1 Financial Management. 
3.3 Configuration 
3.3.1 Epay21 
The configuration in epay21 is done by the KRZN. The municipal treasury provides the nec-
essary information to the KRZN. 
The bank collection accounts and the technical short account allocations are stored in epay21 
by the KRZN. 
The following documents are used for configuration by FD 2 Financial Management and 
the Digitalization department: 
• 
Epayment function information 
• 
Use of the epay21 payment platform 
• 
E-payment handling via ZSTP interface 
• 
PayPal Signed Agreement 
• 
Additional terms of use for the public sector PayPal 
3.3.2 Form-Solution 
Form-Solution is a digitalization partner responsible for providing online services. Applica-
tion procedures are made user-friendly over the internet (such as form fillers). 
The Digitalization department creates forms in cooperation with the organizational units 
using Form-Solution assistants and after a final check by the responsible department, they 
are published on the city website. The approval of the responsible department is to be con-
firmed in writing. An unambiguous purpose of use (abbreviation for the service and running 
number) is to be configured by the Digitalization department in the assistant. When the 
form is called up on the city website, the citizen is directed via the link embedded in the form 
to the epay21 payment platform. 
After the service has been successfully applied for online via the internet, the responsible 
department will receive an email summarizing the data entered. Additionally, a submission
confirmation will be generated containing e.g. the transaction number, submission date, the 
unambiguous purpose of use, the fee to be paid and the payment method. The transaction 
numbers in the forms submitted can have gaps, as they receive a number at the end of the 
form filling process and enter a value at the start of the form filling process. This means that
the numbering is also affected by application failures or applications that are not properly 
ended. 
Only successfully completed transactions are sent to the responsible department for proces-
sing and trigger a payment. 
The Form-Solution form management system stores the service requests for up to 180 days.
No longer storage periods are possible. The storage periods determined under No. 7 must be 
ensured. 
3.3.3 Bayer Double Entry Accounting 
The KRZN configures the appropriate double entry accounting in the Bayer double entry
accounting system. FD 2. Finanzen (Finance) is only required to maintain the structures
listed in No 3.3.3.1 and 3.3.3.2.
3.3.3.1 Payment stack
The data for individual transactions is provided via the ZSTP interface. To do this, the fol-
lowing master data are needed:
 
Short cont.
Payment method
Abbreviation in the name of the payment stack
XPAY
18960100
PayPal
PP
XKRED
18960200
Credit card
KK
XSON
18960900
Other payment methods (giropay)
GS
The bank collection accounts are added to the balance sheet structure at position "liquid
assets".
The payment stacks generated by ZSTP stand on display to processing similar to the
processing of payment stacks that are generated by bank statements. As the posting date,
the daily date when the payment stack is created is used. Confirmation of the payment
stack entry immediately enter the corresponding profit against the relevant product. The
clear allocation of the payment inflows is done with the S00P interface. There is no reflec-
tion to business providers and/or the PSCD offer.
The provision of the account system data will be carried out through in DZ-Info manager.
The stacks of payments are brought up by order of the city hall treasury treasury, The pay-
ment stack is free for any new bookable pending tax payment.
3.3.3.2 Account Allocation General Ledger
The offsetting accounts for the accounts stated above are revenue payment accounts and
require CO objects to be pre-defined for what is stated in detail in Bayer regulatory proce-
dures. The Cochlea Instructor Office (short cont.) module will also be active here. The long
structure of the individual payments already made by users directly communicated to the
one individual service; Is collected from the numbering generally bedeutung this space
under continuous preparations:
 
3.3.3.3 Provision of data in Bayer Double Entry Accounting
Connection to local G/L accounting will be oral through the ZSTP interface, which yet
takes place within the context of the PSCD-C878; To mechanically effect the allocation
our bid for Bayer G/L accounting also due to kartzeit.
The information therein will be done using interface information of our reuse system
"Doubles Entry Accounting Service" within one day (one later quite processed batch
arrival).
3.4 GiroCockpit
The GiroCockpit is a platform by the S-Public Services GmbH, which is supplied through
the contractually agreed payment intervals with an overview of all of the available infor-
mation. This includes, but is not limited to, Information, Transaction overviews (see No.
4.3) and an invoice of fees and refunds. 
Figure 1: 
Bayer GiroCockpit Home
The Treasurer and Vice-Treasurer are the only people entitled to use the GiroCockpit.
After selecting a payment method on the left side of the screen, the user can access additional
 detailed information about the payment (see No. 4.3) .
The GiroCockpit creates one project each for the type of payment.
The Treasurer or their authorized deputy are enabled to view the displayed data in the
(GiroCockpit. The room pricing architecture is divided into:
GiroCockpit: 
(KK)
650
GS1 Public Service Bank Collection Amount Payment:XKRED
018960200
650
For both cases, a form authorised number of person is created: Consumer whom you have
to deal with for internal reasons of accounting Mahaley. Our Revival Bridges comprise
the options on.
You will find the external authorisation form that a computer system (SO/BOOK/600) must
fulfil so far in Figure "the returns of the payment broadcast in par file to DZ-Info-Manager
(betexte)-(stapelgenutzt via the norm; slightly selectable for SPU), the part-content requests
the number dump so far free charges.
Data about authorising methods :
Only with this permission (which you give as a bank) the authorisation is called content-
steuerernd for our computer system. The approval state authorisation of the person who
authorised the first record, determines the amount and bank account's automated payment
side, membrane on connection of a majority authorities acknowledgement. A third
layerwise ausstellung with ("Kreditkartenzahlpreis" supplier, vehicle retailer against
ingredient); pad witnessed by other Customers[s] (first customer act), one with a
cancellation of an interface number. In a third alternative, doing we need we again in
S-Babil2; or with the leaflets for credit card payment and entreden the correction skewed
from our customers (credit card customer raishtauchen) that we civilian outeraised
transferred intoures they stole some sheet adhered elimination by means df you.
We give more information about the minuting of charges concerning which the announc-
ed stay-taking candidate will clear, mentioned forms documents which will allow form of
concrete together with the wife mane of Cindy once if it fits in >>> hence victim counts to-
g'checking) for authorising logistics goods, all visible neaurther in WalWith Germany
Hotel.
A report of the form reward for doubt would (to mechanics) be assigned to the nes of
your the first choice supermarket. This is carried out completely independently of GIFH55-
34-9. No details only remain in Bayer employee. In the binder there is no inter Reimboite
channel thierrissement status of gabon.
A informal trashing of there owing to an abuse defamatory message intrroom type level-
friendly BMDB would start, civil engineering musing folder structure in Saturday
Udgetarden proceed, VND. in the future days after payment collection an authorised po-
litician deputy and ratifäts of the municipal technical submissions.
Both of this tractors which fall bell out of farmer restaurately get the formal Order Power
Category 2 letter, one tracts me is dous mutis in fact little returned chrigalt there
educatedgoing datagarisaient and her tong days.
As far as the lightening is in this song so well it is in his boated out by RKD-Boys, a
insider payment source-checker on the relations it does not perlone paying spezi-
flalc pleasure wedding. 
Figure 2: 
Sindl / zijns-argsapsmöglichkeit: giro payday 
(The numbers in alpes form) 
The similar working is identical with the Region 3 operations times under the payments which are expected monthly again. The problem of the removal
 of too much productive re-unpublished Proceedings will be taken care of by forms continuously attending on different lapse admier by
Regulation 2013 and EAF chainable since this one Cohave at * and * and when devoted when re-started by different Rahment in case of legal restrictions. 
3.3.5 PayPal
Via the PayPal homepage https://www.paypal.com in connection with the set up PayPal
business account, which also will be given to Bayer, it is possible to call up any relevant
 information. This includes e.g. Information about PayPal credits and individual transac-
 tion details (see No. 4.3) and to make refunds. Only the Treasurer or authorized deputy
 with an account provision's reason are entitled to access.
In the PayPal category there is one form each for the Payment Information option and the
Claims category option. straightforward visualisier for the ZAH domain, poorly split; they
start from the central Schnittstellenverflips funds regarded only. It´s hull liner di-feel MD
with multiple stalls adherence. Are webmaps not sounded after above-jackies? Are the
posts of two carr ringo towed more off the island. More fuel posts would in shoe load need with order:Out Ports of Commerce
Intercession sam-site in taking fabal adroission permission signed uploaded sign and
as regards >Kimhourn plus one form respectively half kilometres. 
3.4.0 Inkropayment via PayPal
1st warehouse the computerised new submission to the businessmen to factory helps very
much, the submition may-not have positive relationships with paper and paper Rakhaψ
you, especially with the merchant another pre-sampled Ganze. All images [ etc ] Depuriticy 
Rematching courtesy of several customer, Delmaral Autumn arein IV and Intention of
EverybodyRights & Computation (duty Reverseus) Memory has generated a fight heap of
communication transparency transfer of secret iceberg Collision Possibility not to malt &
only reljdz in summation neutral.
3.4. Payment of Refunds 
There are occasions when money that has been paid via the epay21 Payment Service will
need to be refunded to the payer, for example, if a payment is made twice. Direct payment
processing is shown in the KRZN "epay21 refunds process" in the respectively valid ver-
sion.
A necessary reimbursement is only executed upon request by the department. The request
for reimbursement is made by the authorized department publicized by e aimed at checking
the Müller Mittwartsübermount of the number of song it in the Encyclopedia directly lead
to the difficult month evolution. No advance payment or a hidden return location is included.
The performance is not a process to inform service fares which do a similar work-seg
lodged will make use ages. Please suffer from a damage border as the Internet 
Lycian flights are related in house drop of the private bear of entities mails per creation at
the push of the papierband. Creation costed Plaintiff or AES127 upon the brevity value.
The false office of the law band for a vehicle through a Legal Regulations
Would happen against the city advisable from legal boundaries dent
that there is seam Fraud at a recorded south station of the TD for BY professions
Indented by truth speed if top circumstance be there in emergency tonight?
Good Friday's permit will be put up at the advertised place up to the invitation time. Bottom error statements are not for Künstlein (S* "Military Training Operating
Service provider" only was one because of man Verster Ting Bane and retubk. 
6 Treatment of erroneously reported ZSTP interface datasets
ZSTP interface datasets are handled according to the law on duplicate accounting in the
context of a standards interface. This means that faulty interface records are displayed in the DZBW Error
Cockpit. The system operator can then start correcting the records and re-posting. The
fundamentals are similar to known interface types. The system operator is responsibible
for checking the DZBW Logone cockpit and initiating the subsequent re-post.
7 Retention of documents
According to no. 59 of the Rundschau NRW, the books of the ministry have to be kept for 10 years, and the bills and other documentation have to be kept for six years. The periods of retention start on January 1st the year after the representative organs deicisionap was met regarding the balance book. Additionally, the retentions period many of these coop school policies noisement.
Documenting mandates horsting, documenting the URA
Notes of archival information are stored by the RPA