An Agreement for cleaning staff of the fictional city "Brückendorf" 
 
 
Between the fictional city Brückendorf - represented by the mayor - and the Staff Council of the fictional city administration Brückendorf - represented by the chairman - is concluded in accordance with § 70 LPVG (German Law on Staff Representation) the following amended version of the "Agreement for cleaning staff of the fictional city Brückendorf": 
 
 
1. Subject and Scope 
 
The subject of this Agreement are regulations for improving the efficiency of the municipal building cleaning.  
 
The Agreement applies to all current and future buildings to be cleaned by municipal employees, with the exception of the swimming facilities and the mobile cleaning service, for which special regulations are made. 
 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The new regulations aim to optimize municipal building cleaning in such a way that the cost disadvantage observed in comparison with private providers no longer exists. This goal is considered achieved with the realization of a further optimization of 8-10%, based on the converted area as of December 31, 1997, and corresponds to an additional cost savings of 460,000 to 580,000 DM. 
 
In addition, the cleaning in buildings that have not yet been converted will also be optimized in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
The measures to be taken in deviation from the previous Agreement are based on the knowledge that a fixed specification of cleaning standards does not sufficiently take into account the particular conditions on site and that personnel qualification as well as better cleaning equipment can bring additional effects. 
 
The agreed measures serve the goal of ensuring a quality standard in building cleaning that meets both hygienic requirements and contributes to the preservation of the existing building substance, while maintaining humane working conditions. 
 
 
3. Central Office for Building Cleaning 
The "Central Office for Building Cleaning -ZGR-", which is attached to the Main Office, General Administration Tasks Division, is responsible for all specialist matters relating to building cleaning. 
 
The ZGR is responsible for all cleaning staff who fall under this Agreement. The caretaker staff are responsible for cleaning questions on behalf of the ZGR and take on the specialist and administrative supervision of the cleaning staff assigned to them in the buildings. 
 
Further details are regulated by organizational directive for office 10, work instruction for school caretakers and cleaning regulations. These regulations will be supplemented by an organizational directive, which grants the ZGR an early right of co-determination in the planning of new construction and renovation measures of the building authorities and the building construction office. 
 
10/06 
O:\Golks\Da and RV\Da\Zentrales Gebäudemanagement\DaZGM-01_Dv-Reinigungskraefte.doc 
9 
 
 
4. Cleaning Scope, Cleaning Methods and Cleaning Intervals 
 
The type, scope and frequency of the work to be performed are determined in detail by the cleaning regulations, which form part of this Agreement. For this purpose, it is agreed that the cleaning regulations may be changed in the future as a separate document within the co-determination procedure with the Staff Council. The continuation of the Agreement shall not be affected by this. 
 
In addition, the cleaning requirements for each building are determined by separately prepared cleaning plans. The housekeeper staff (caretakers, hall wardens, building custodians) decide on deviations from the cleaning frequencies specified in the cleaning plans (usage-based). The ZGR must be involved in longer-term changes. 
 
 
5. Cleaning Guidelines 
 
The determination of the required cleaning hours will in future be based on flexible cleaning guidelines. These guidelines will be determined on a case-by-case basis in the context of on-site inspections in accordance with local conditions (e.g. taking into account heavy chairs and extensive interior glass surfaces) by the ZGR in consultation with the Staff Council. Deviations from them are possible on a case-by-case basis.   
 
a) Manual Cleaning: 
Offices                                                 160 sqm/hour 
Classrooms                                         200 sqm/hour 
Corridors                                             200 sqm/hour 
Gymnasiums                                        240 sqm/hour 
Daycare centers                                 120 sqm/hour 
Other room types                              160 sqm/hour 
Toilets                                                 120 sqm/hour 
Shower and washing rooms                  160 sqm/hour 
 
b) Mechanical cleaning: 
Gymnasiums                                       800 sqm/hour 
Recreational halls                            480 sqm/hour 
Corridors                                             480 sqm/hour 
 
For areas subject to interval cleaning, a time supplement of up to 10% (interval supplement) may be taken into account if a higher cleaning effort due to dirt is noticed. 
 
 
6. Cleaning Area 
 
An effective cleaning requires a modern, powerful equipment with high quality equipment and machinery. 
 
In order to further optimize municipal building cleaning, the previous activities for improving the cleaning equipment in the buildings will be continued. The necessary funds will be provided for this purpose. 
 
 
7. Protective Clothing 
The cleaning staff are equipped with the necessary protective clothing in accordance with the requirements of the "Work Instruction for Service and Protective Clothing". Employees are required to use protective clothing when performing the corresponding work. 
 
 
8. Personnel Requirements 
 
Personnel allocation is based on the object-specific cleaning guidelines determined, the cleaning area determined and the other cleaning standards (cleaning methods and intervals) defined for each object in the cleaning plans.  
 
The required weekly cleaning time per object is distributed as evenly as possible among part-time cleaning staff. 
 
 
10/06 
O:\Golks\Da and RV\Da\Zentrales Gebäudemanagement\DaZGM-01_Dv-Reinigungskraefte.doc 
10 
 
 
9. District Division 
 
The division of districts is carried out by the caretaker staff in coordination with the ZGR. The rotation of cleaning activities in larger districts can be tested with team work and if results are good, the previous practice of single districts will be replaced to achieve a more equal workload for all cleaning staff. 
 
 
10. Working Hours, Holidays 

The weekly working hours of the cleaning staff will be determined in consultation with the Staff Council. Start and end of the daily working hours of the cleaning staff are based on the operations in the buildings and are determined by the ZGR. 
 
Cleaning staff employed in schools, daycare centers, sports facilities and cultural facilities must take their holidays during school holidays or company holidays. Exceptions to this are possible if there are no work-related reasons (e.g. additional costs for replacement personnel, or if cleaning cannot be guaranteed). 
 
 
11. School-free Days, Reduced Time for Basic Cleaning 
 
Cleaning is not done on school-free days (e.g. customs days, teachers' excursions). These days are free with an obligation to work on another day. There is no obligation to work on Rose Monday. 
 
Cleaning in schools is reduced to 16 cleaning days per year during holidays. No cleaning takes place in schools outside of these times. 
 
To compensate for additional non-tariff holidays and holidays not covered by basic cleaning, a time deficit is calculated and can be fulfilled by taking additional tasks in the same building, taking unpaid leave or working in another building. The new time deficit will be calculated annually as follows: 
 
Example: 
Working days during school holidays                     54 
- Reduced time for basic cleaning                               16 
- Vacation entitlement including workdays day       31 
- Additional Days off                                                             . 
= Amount of time deficit                                                  7 
x daily working hours (hours)         4 
= Time deficit in hours                                                 28 
+ days off in hours                                                        8 
    (Teachers' excursions, parent-teacher conferences, etc.) ________ 
= Time deficit in total hours                                        36 
 
The time deficit will be determined by the ZGR and communicated to the caretaker staff. The caretaker staff are required to report the completed time deficit on monthly time sheets. 
 
If employees prefer, unpaid leave can be granted during holidays. 
 
 
12. Reserve Staff 
 
A reserve staff is formed from part-time cleaning staff (50% of normal working hours) for holiday and sick leave replacements. New hires for the reserve staff will be made gradually to the extent that excess staff are no longer available. 
 
The calculation is based on the total hours determined for all independently cleaned buildings per year, with account taken of time deficits in the schools. The total requirement calculated based on absences in 1998 and 1999 is set at 8%. The requirement is re-calculated every two years based on absences. 
 
If there are excess staff, they will continue to be assigned to the reserve staff until they leave or are transferred. 
 
10/06 
O:\Golks\Da and RV\Da\Zentrales Gebäudemanagement\DaZGM-01_Dv-Reinigungskraefte.doc 
11 
 
 
The reserve staff consists of decentralized cleaning staff working in buildings and, if necessary, a mobile column service using cars. The first assignment of staff in the reserve staff will be decided in coordination with the Staff Council. Groups of staff assigned to buildings can also be called in for cleaning in other buildings. 
 
The ZGR exercises ongoing deployment from the reserve staff in accordance with the requirements announced by the caretaker staff. If cleaning staff are employed in several buildings on the same work day, time traveling to other locations counts as working time. 
 
Reserve staff carry out basic cleaning work during the absence period. 
 
 
13. Replacement Regulations 
 
When staff are absent, the following order applies for replacement: 
• 
Matching the time deficit for non-working days (custom days) and due to reduced basic cleaning times 
• 
Use of reserve staff in the same building, in other buildings according to capacity (see section 12) 
• 
Assignment to work in other buildings, from reserve staff in other buildings in which replacement is taking place, starting with reserve staff from the same district and, within the district, based on seniority 
• 
A reduced cleaning schedule at the time (see section13.1) 
• 
Overtime (see section 13.2) 
 
No replacement regulations are made during school holidays. There are exceptions for schools with personnel allocations of up to two cleaners for the duration of basic cleaning. 
 
 
13.1 Reduced Cleaning 
 
If a replacement staff member cannot be provided immediately, and there is no time deficit from other cleaning staff to cover absences, basic cleaning is carried out in reduced form. In this case, the following applies: 
- In schools for the first three days a caretaker is absent 
- In administrative and other building sites for one week 
 
Working days do not need to be consecutive, but are object-specific, meaning that if staff are absent consecutively, basic cleaning only needs to be reduced for one three-day/one week period. 
 
Basic cleaning needs to take place for one week out of two in between two periods of reduced cleaning. 
 
There is no reduced cleaning in buildings with high hygienic standards (e.g. daycare centers, sports facilities used daily). 
 
The following cleaning tasks are reduced or not done during this substitute period: 
- All minor tasks, such as the following: 
• 
Wiping down furnishings and equipment 
• 
Cleaning desk surfaces (except for classroom desks) 
• 
Vacuuming upholstered furniture 
• 
Wiping door ledges, doorway frames, doors and stair railings 
• 
Cleaning radiators and floor moldings 
• 
Cleaning dirt traps, mats, and runners 
• 
Cleaning boards 
• 
Wiping down tiled and oil walls 
• 
Dusting skirting boards 
• 
Removing stains from carpets 
 
Tasks at meal times need to be continued. 
 
10/06 
O:\Golks\Da and RV\Da\Zentrales Gebäudemanagement\DaZGM-01_Dv-Reinigungskraefte.doc 
12 
 
 
The following cleaning tasks should be carried out: 
• 
Cleaning offices once a week (waste disposal at regular intervals as before the changeover), 
• 
Clean corridors and stairwells starting with the 2nd floor, with a basic cleaning (dry sweeping) every week, 
• 
Interior glass surfaces should only be cleaned when heavily soiled (e.g. main entrance doors), 
• 
Dispensing with time-consuming floor finishing treatments (polishing) 
 
The following areas must be cleaned daily: 
• 
Sanitary areas 
• 
Heavily soiled rooms and corridor areas 
• 
Washing and rest rooms 
• 
Gymnasiums, changing rooms, and showers 
• 
Kitchens and dining areas 
 
Instructions for limiting cleaning activities and for substituting during times of absence of staff comes from the caretaker staff. They have authority to decide which areas and which cleaning activities should take place, which areas can be cleaned during this period, and which staff member should cover the absence of another staff member. 
 
 
13.2 Overtime 
 
After the period of limited cleaning time is over, overtime can be ordered. The decision will be made by the ZGR. 
 
Overtime hours are usually completed at employees' discretion. Overtime can only be ordered if: 
• No staff are available from the reserve staff 
• Overtime worked voluntarily is declined 
• It cannot be forfeited in the workplace for operational reasons. 
 
Overtime can only be ordered in the necessary amount and should be distributed evenly among the cleaning staff wherever possible. Private obligations of the cleaning staff should be taken into consideration when assigning overtime. 
 
Overtime is usually done at the end of normal working hours or, on exceptional occasions, before normal working hours. 
 
 
14. Equipment Standards 
 
14.1 Equipment and Machinery Requirements 
 
Efficient cleaning requires modern, powerful equipment appropriate to the tasks required. 
 
The required equipment to further optimize municipal building cleaning will be provided. 
 
 
14.2 Protective Clothing 
 
The cleaning staff will be informed in good time and extensively about new regulations resulting from this Agreement and will be trained accordingly. 
 
The ZGR ensures that new cleaning employees are informed of rights, responsibilities and the use of chemicals and clean-up procedures with new cleaning equipment and machines. If a caretaker is not at the location to provide such information, the ZGR provieds this service. 
 
In addition, the ZGR conducts training sessions for cleaning staff on new working techniques. Employees must and are entitled to participate in these sessions. 
 
10/06 
O:\Golks\Da and RV\Da\Zentrales Gebäudemanagement\DaZGM-01_Dv-Reinigungskraefte.doc 
13 
 
15. Structural Prerequisites 
 
A major cause for high cleaning costs can be deficiencies of the building, which are responsible for more work. 
 
Responsible dealings with public funds also include maintaining existing buildings in such a way that the structural substance is maintained in the long term. This is to be ensured by the following measures: 
 
The building department has an obligation to make sure that in the planning stages of new construction projects, new cleaning procedures are coordinated with the ZGR and the building authorities in order to ensure cleaning-friendly construction and design. This also applies to building renovation and maintenance measures. 
 
 
15.1 Existing Cleaning Objects 
 
The existing objects will be checked to determine if certain work processes can be done more effectively and in a more humane manner through reasonable means. 
 
 
16. Introduction Time 
 
The object-specific cleaning regulations determined during onsite inspections will be introduced as soon as the necessary conversion work is complete. For this purpose, the agreement of the personnel council will be sought, and if higher work is done, the agreement will be made. 
 
 
17. Implementation 
 
As a result of once again optimizing municipal building cleaning, an excess working time of 8-10% has been determined in all buildings. Both sides mutually agree that 
 
a) there will be no dismissal due to business reasons; if a reduction in working time is inevitable, it will be carried out in harmony and in a socially just manner. 
 
b) Transfers will be carried out in a socially just manner. The following criteria have been agreed upon. 
 
- Duration of employment 
- Age 
- Personal performance 
- Social considerations 
 
c) Excess staff in individual buildings will be assigned as replacements in the current location and as replacements in other locations. Where possible, considerations will be made for place of residence and path to the workplace. 
 
 
 
18. Training and Information for Caretaker and Cleaning Staff 
 
The caretaker and cleaning staff are appropriately informed about new regulations arising out of this Agreement and are suitably trained. 
 
The ZGR ensures new cleaning staff are informed of their rights and responsibilities, the degree of contact with chemicals, and the use of cleaning devices and machines. In cases where a caretaker is unavailable at the site, the ZGR ensures cleaning employees receive appropriate information. 
 
Moreover, the ZGR conducts training sessions to update and educate cleaning staff about new working techniques. As such, cleaning staff are allowed and required to attend training sessions. 
 
10/06 
O:\Golks\Da and RV\Da\Zentrales Gebäudemanagement\DaZGM-01_Dv-Reinigungskraefte.doc 
14 
 
 
19. Taking Effect 
 
This Agreement comes into effect on April 1, 2001. 
 
It may be cancelled mutually with three months' notice before the end of a quarter. 
 
No lasting effect will exist. 
 
 
 
- Author: Fake - 

- Date Published: 10/06/2111 

- Date Executed: 10/06/2102